packages/fclasses/README.md, before:

# FClasses Design API

## Introduction

The FClasses Design API is designed to allow composed components to expose a
styling API which remains consistent even when the internal markup of the
component changes. Consumers of those components can then sustainably extend and
re-extend their look and feel, with less danger of breakage when the underlying
component changes.

At a high level, a component using this library will exposes a "design" prop
which describes the UI elements of which it is composed. Consumers then supply a
list of higher-order components which will be applied to each element to modify
its appearence or behavior. The framework allows nested wrapping of components
to selectively extend or override individual elements. It also provides a tool
for adding and removing classes to/from individual elements, encouraging a
pattern of "atomic" or "functional" CSS.

## Styling with FClasses

### Functional CSS

This library was developed to support a styling paradigm known as "atomic" or
"functional" CSS.  There are many excellent web resources describing the goals
and methodology of this pattern, but in its most basic form, it uses simple,
single-purpose utility classes in lieu of complex CSS selectors. Thus, for example,
instead of

```html
<div class="my-wrapper">Foo</div>
```

```css
.my-wrapper {
  background-color: blue;
  color: white;
}
```

the functional css paradigm favors

```html
<div class="bg-blue text-white">Foo</div>
```

```css
.bg-blue {
  background-color: blue;
}
.text-white {
  color: white;
}
```

Usually, a framework is used to generate the utility classes programmatically. [Tachyons](https://tachyons.io/)
and [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) are two such frameworks. All the
examples below use classes generated by Tailwind.

### FClasses

The `FClasses` API in this library provides higher-order components which can be
used to add and remove classes from an element. They allow a single element
styled using functional utilty classes to be fully or partially restyled --
prserving some of its styles while adding or removing others. For example:

```javascript
const Div = stylable<HTMLProps<HTMLDivElement>>('div');
const Callout = addClasses('bg-blue text-white p-2 border border-yellow')(Div);
const SpecialGreenCallout = addClasses('bg-green').removeClasses('bg-blue')(Callout);
```

The higher order components are reusable, so for example:

```
const withRedCalloutBorder = addClasses('border-red').removeClasses('border-yellow);
const RedBorderedCallout = withRedCalloutBorder(Callout);
const ChristmasCallout = withRedCalloutBorder(SpecialGreenCallout);
```

and they can be composed using standard functional programming techniques:

```javascript
const ChristmasCallout = flowRight(
  withRedCalloutBorder,
  asSpecialGreenCallout,
  asCallout,
)('div');
```

### Some important things to remember about FClasses.

#### Always use `stylable()`

In order to use `addClasses()` or `removeClasses()`, the target component must
first be made stylable. That is:
```javascript
const BlueDiv = addClasses('bg-blue')('div');
```
will not work (and will raise a type error if using Typescript).  Instead, you must write:
```javascript
const Div = stylable<HTMLProps<HTMLDivElement>>('div');
const BlueDiv = addClasses('bg-blue')(Div);
```
or, if you prefer:
```
const BlueDiv = flowRight(
  addClasses('bg-blue'),
  stylable,
)('div');
```

#### Explicitly type `stylable()` when applied to intrinsic elements.

When using typescript in the above examples, we must explicitly
specify the type of our stylable `Div` because it cannot be inferred from the
intrinsic element `'div'`.

#### Don't add classes directly.

`removeClasses()` can only remove classes which were originally added by
`addClasses()`. Thus, for example:
```javascript
const BlueDiv = ({ className, ...rest }) => <div className={`${classname} bg-blue`} {...rest} />;
const GreenDiv = removeClasses('bg-blue').addClasses('bg-green')(BlueDiv);
```
will *not* work, because the `bg-blue` class is hidden inside `BlueDiv` and not
accessible to the `removeClasses()` HOC. Instead, use:
```
const BlueDiv = addClasses('bg-blue')(Stylable('div'));
const GreenDiv = removeClasses('bg-blue').addClasses('bg-green')(BlueDiv);
```

#### Use `removeClasses()` with no arguments to remove all classes
```
const Button: FC<HTMLProps<HTMLButtonElement>> = props => <button onClick={specialClickHandler} type="button" {...props} />;
const StylableButton = stylable(Button);
const OceanButton = withClasses('text-green bg-blue italic')(StylableButton);
const DesertButton = withoutClasses().withClasses('text-yellow bg-red bold')(OceanButton);
```
This is usefule when you don't have access to the original, unstyled variant of the component.


## The Design API

The Design API provides a mechanism for applying higher order components (including those
provided by the FClasses API) to individual elements within a compound component.

### Exposing the Design API

Consider the following component:
```javascript
const Tout: FC<{}> = () => {
  return (
    <div className="wrapper">
      <h2 className="title">This is the title</h2>
      <div className="body">This is the body</h2>
      <a href="http://foo.com" className="cta">This is the CTA</a>
    </div>
  );
)
```

With the Design API, rather than providing classes which a consumer can style
using CSS, we provide a way for consumers to replace or modify the individual
components of which the Tout is composed:

```javascript
export type ToutComponents = {
  Wrapper: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  ImageWrapper: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  ImageLink: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Image: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  ContentWrapper: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Title: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Body: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Link: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
};
const toutComponentStart:ToutComponents = {
  Wrapper: Div,
  ImageWrapper: Div,
  ImageLink: A,
  Image: Img,
  ContentWrapper: Div,
  Title: H2,
  Body: Div,
  Link: A,
};

type Props = DesignableComponentsProps<ToutComponents> & { };

const ToutBase: FC<Props> = ({ components }) => {
  const {
    Wrapper,
    ImageWrapper,
    Image,
    ImageLink,
    ContentWrapper,
    Title,
    Body,
    Link,
  } = components;

  return (
    <Wrapper>
      <ImageWrapper>
        <ImageLink>
          <Image />
        </ImageLink>
      </ImageWrapper>
      <ContentWrapper>
        <Title />
        <Body />
        <Link />
      </ContentWrapper>
    </Wrapper>
  );
};
```

Here we have defined a type of the components that we need, a starting point for those components and then we have create a componant that accepts those compoents.  Next we will combine the Start point as well as the ToutBase to make a designable tout that can take a Design prop.

``` js
const ToutDesignable = designable(toutComponentStart)(ToutBase);
```

## Consuming the Design API

A consumer can now style our Tout by employing the `withDesign()` API method to
pass a `Design` object as a prop value. This is simply a set of higher-order
components which will be applied to each element. For example:

```js
const asBasicTout = withDesign({
  Wrapper: addClasses('font-sans'),
  Title: addClasses('text-sm text-green'),
  Body: addClasses('my-10'),
  Cta: addClasses('block w-full bg-blue text-yellow py-1'),
});

const BasicTout = asBasicTout(Tout);
```

In ths example, we could simply have provided our design directly as a prop:

```js
const BasicTout: FC = () => <Tout design={{
  Wrapper: addClasses('font-sans'),
  Title: addClasses('text-sm text-green'),
  Body: addClasses('my-10'),
  Cta: addClasses('block w-full bg-blue text-yellow py-1'),
}} />
```

However, by using `withDesign()` instead, our component itself will expose its own
design prop, allowing other consumers to further extend it:

```javascript
const asPinkTout = withDesign({
  Cta: addClasses('bg-pink').removeClasses('bg-blue'),
});
const PinkTout = asPinkTout(BasicTout);
```

In these examples, we are *extending* the default components. If we wanted
instead to *replace* one, we could write our HOC to ignore its argument
(or use the provided shortcut HOC `replaceWith()`):

```javascript
const StylableH2 = stylable<JSX.IntrinsicElements['h2']>('h2');
const StandardH2 = addClasses('text-xl text-blue')(StylableH2);

const StandardTout = withDesign({
  Title: replaceWith(StandardH2), // same as () => StandardH2
})(BasicTout);
```

As with FClasses, HOC's created via `withDesign()` are themselves reusable, so
we can write:

``` js
const asStandardTout = withDesign({
  Title: replaceWith(StandardH2), // same as () => StandardH2
});
const StandardTout = asStandardTout(Tout);
const StandardPinkTout = asStandardTout(PinkTout);
const StandardRedTout = asStandardTout(RedTout);
```

And, also as with FClasses, the HOC's can be composed:

``` js
const StandardPinkAndGreenTout = flowRight(
  withGreenCtaText,
  asStandardTout,
  asPinkTout,
)(BasicTout);
```

## Conditional styling

It is sometimes useful to apply classes conditionally, based on props passed to
a component. The FClasses design API includes some helper methods which make
this easier.

Imagine we have a button which has different variants depending on whether it
is active and/or whether it is the first in a list of buttons.  We can use
the `flowIf()`, `withoutProps()` and `hasProp()` helpers to accomplish this:

``` js
type VariantProps = {
  isActive?: boolean,
  isFirst?: boolean,
  isEnabled?: boolean,
};

const Div = stylable<HTMLProps<HTMLDivElement>>('div');

const ContextMenuButton = flow(
  withoutProps<VariantProps>(['isActive', 'isFirst'),
  addClasses('cursor-pointer pl-2 text-grey').flow,
  flowIf(hasProp('isActive'))(
    addClasses('text-white').removeClasses('text-grey'),
  ),
  flowIf(hasProp('isFirst'))(
    removeClasses('pl-2'),
  ),
)(Div);
```

A few notes:

- We use `flow()` rather than `flowRight()` because it is better at type inference.
- Our innermost HOC is `withoutProps()`. This guarantees that the props used to
  control styling won't be passed to the `div` element. We must explicitly type
  the generic `withoutProps()`. This ensures that the type of the resulting
  component will include these props.
- We must use the `.flow` property of `addClasses()` because of a peculiar type
  inference problem in `flow` when a HOC function has its own properties or
  methods. See [tsflow.test.tsx](./__tests__/tsflow.test.jsx) for an example.

Commit message:

feat(fclasses): Change startWith so that it does not replace the whole item but instead just the starting Component

packages/fclasses/README.md, after:

# FClasses Design API

## Introduction

The FClasses Design API is designed to allow composed components to expose a
styling API which remains consistent even when the internal markup of the
component changes. Consumers of those components can then sustainably extend and
re-extend their look and feel, with less danger of breakage when the underlying
component changes.

At a high level, a component using this library will exposes a "design" prop
which describes the UI elements of which it is composed. Consumers then supply a
list of higher-order components which will be applied to each element to modify
its appearence or behavior. The framework allows nested wrapping of components
to selectively extend or override individual elements. It also provides a tool
for adding and removing classes to/from individual elements, encouraging a
pattern of "atomic" or "functional" CSS.

## Styling with FClasses

### Functional CSS

This library was developed to support a styling paradigm known as "atomic" or
"functional" CSS.  There are many excellent web resources describing the goals
and methodology of this pattern, but in its most basic form, it uses simple,
single-purpose utility classes in lieu of complex CSS selectors. Thus, for example,
instead of

```html
<div class="my-wrapper">Foo</div>
```

```css
.my-wrapper {
  background-color: blue;
  color: white;
}
```

the functional css paradigm favors

```html
<div class="bg-blue text-white">Foo</div>
```

```css
.bg-blue {
  background-color: blue;
}
.text-white {
  color: white;
}
```

Usually, a framework is used to generate the utility classes programmatically. [Tachyons](https://tachyons.io/)
and [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) are two such frameworks. All the
examples below use classes generated by Tailwind.

### FClasses

The `FClasses` API in this library provides higher-order components which can be
used to add and remove classes from an element. They allow a single element
styled using functional utilty classes to be fully or partially restyled --
prserving some of its styles while adding or removing others. For example:

```javascript
const Div = stylable<HTMLProps<HTMLDivElement>>('div');
const Callout = addClasses('bg-blue text-white p-2 border border-yellow')(Div);
const SpecialGreenCallout = addClasses('bg-green').removeClasses('bg-blue')(Callout);
```

The higher order components are reusable, so for example:

```
const withRedCalloutBorder = addClasses('border-red').removeClasses('border-yellow);
const RedBorderedCallout = withRedCalloutBorder(Callout);
const ChristmasCallout = withRedCalloutBorder(SpecialGreenCallout);
```

and they can be composed using standard functional programming techniques:

```javascript
const ChristmasCallout = flowRight(
  withRedCalloutBorder,
  asSpecialGreenCallout,
  asCallout,
)('div');
```

### Some important things to remember about FClasses.

#### Always use `stylable()`

In order to use `addClasses()` or `removeClasses()`, the target component must
first be made stylable. That is:
```javascript
const BlueDiv = addClasses('bg-blue')('div');
```
will not work (and will raise a type error if using Typescript).  Instead, you must write:
```javascript
const Div = stylable<HTMLProps<HTMLDivElement>>('div');
const BlueDiv = addClasses('bg-blue')(Div);
```
or, if you prefer:
```
const BlueDiv = flowRight(
  addClasses('bg-blue'),
  stylable,
)('div');
```

#### Explicitly type `stylable()` when applied to intrinsic elements.

When using typescript in the above examples, we must explicitly
specify the type of our stylable `Div` because it cannot be inferred from the
intrinsic element `'div'`.

#### Don't add classes directly.

`removeClasses()` can only remove classes which were originally added by
`addClasses()`. Thus, for example:
```javascript
const BlueDiv = ({ className, ...rest }) => <div className={`${classname} bg-blue`} {...rest} />;
const GreenDiv = removeClasses('bg-blue').addClasses('bg-green')(BlueDiv);
```
will *not* work, because the `bg-blue` class is hidden inside `BlueDiv` and not
accessible to the `removeClasses()` HOC. Instead, use:
```
const BlueDiv = addClasses('bg-blue')(Stylable('div'));
const GreenDiv = removeClasses('bg-blue').addClasses('bg-green')(BlueDiv);
```

#### Use `removeClasses()` with no arguments to remove all classes
```
const Button: FC<HTMLProps<HTMLButtonElement>> = props => <button onClick={specialClickHandler} type="button" {...props} />;
const StylableButton = stylable(Button);
const OceanButton = withClasses('text-green bg-blue italic')(StylableButton);
const DesertButton = withoutClasses().withClasses('text-yellow bg-red bold')(OceanButton);
```
This is usefule when you don't have access to the original, unstyled variant of the component.


## The Design API

The Design API provides a mechanism for applying higher order components (including those
provided by the FClasses API) to individual elements within a compound component.

### Exposing the Design API

Consider the following component:
```javascript
const Tout: FC<{}> = () => {
  return (
    <div className="wrapper">
      <h2 className="title">This is the title</h2>
      <div className="body">This is the body</h2>
      <a href="http://foo.com" className="cta">This is the CTA</a>
    </div>
  );
)
```

With the Design API, rather than providing classes which a consumer can style
using CSS, we provide a way for consumers to replace or modify the individual
components of which the Tout is composed:

```javascript
export type ToutComponents = {
  Wrapper: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  ImageWrapper: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  ImageLink: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Image: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  ContentWrapper: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Title: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Body: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
  Link: ComponentType<StylableProps>,
};
const toutComponentStart:ToutComponents = {
  Wrapper: Div,
  ImageWrapper: Div,
  ImageLink: A,
  Image: Img,
  ContentWrapper: Div,
  Title: H2,
  Body: Div,
  Link: A,
};

type Props = DesignableComponentsProps<ToutComponents> & { };

const ToutBase: FC<Props> = ({ components }) => {
  const {
    Wrapper,
    ImageWrapper,
    Image,
    ImageLink,
    ContentWrapper,
    Title,
    Body,
    Link,
  } = components;

  return (
    <Wrapper>
      <ImageWrapper>
        <ImageLink>
          <Image />
        </ImageLink>
      </ImageWrapper>
      <ContentWrapper>
        <Title />
        <Body />
        <Link />
      </ContentWrapper>
    </Wrapper>
  );
};
```

Here we have defined a type of the components that we need, a starting point for those components and then we have create a componant that accepts those compoents.  Next we will combine the Start point as well as the ToutBase to make a designable tout that can take a Design prop.

``` js
const ToutDesignable = designable(toutComponentStart)(ToutBase);
```

## Consuming the Design API

A consumer can now style our Tout by employing the `withDesign()` API method to
pass a `Design` object as a prop value. This is simply a set of higher-order
components which will be applied to each element. For example:

```js
const asBasicTout = withDesign({
  Wrapper: addClasses('font-sans'),
  Title: addClasses('text-sm text-green'),
  Body: addClasses('my-10'),
  Cta: addClasses('block w-full bg-blue text-yellow py-1'),
});

const BasicTout = asBasicTout(Tout);
```

In ths example, we could simply have provided our design directly as a prop:

```js
const BasicTout: FC = () => <Tout design={{
  Wrapper: addClasses('font-sans'),
  Title: addClasses('text-sm text-green'),
  Body: addClasses('my-10'),
  Cta: addClasses('block w-full bg-blue text-yellow py-1'),
}} />
```

However, by using `withDesign()` instead, our component itself will expose its own
design prop, allowing other consumers to further extend it:

```javascript
const asPinkTout = withDesign({
  Cta: addClasses('bg-pink').removeClasses('bg-blue'),
});
const PinkTout = asPinkTout(BasicTout);
```

In these examples, we are *extending* the default components. If we wanted
instead to *replace* one, we could write our HOC to ignore its argument
(or use the provided shortcut HOC `replaceWith()`):

```javascript
const StylableH2 = stylable<JSX.IntrinsicElements['h2']>('h2');
const StandardH2 = addClasses('text-xl text-blue')(StylableH2);

const StandardTout = withDesign({
  Title: replaceWith(StandardH2), // same as () => StandardH2
})(BasicTout);
```

We can also use the `startWith()` HOC, instead of replacing the whole component, it will only replace the base component but still use any hoc that might have wrapped it.

As with FClasses, HOC's created via `withDesign()` are themselves reusable, so
we can write:

``` js
const asStandardTout = withDesign({
  Title: replaceWith(StandardH2), // same as () => StandardH2
});
const StandardTout = asStandardTout(Tout);
const StandardPinkTout = asStandardTout(PinkTout);
const StandardRedTout = asStandardTout(RedTout);
```

And, also as with FClasses, the HOC's can be composed:

``` js
const StandardPinkAndGreenTout = flowRight(
  withGreenCtaText,
  asStandardTout,
  asPinkTout,
)(BasicTout);
```

## Conditional styling

It is sometimes useful to apply classes conditionally, based on props passed to
a component. The FClasses design API includes some helper methods which make
this easier.

Imagine we have a button which has different variants depending on whether it
is active and/or whether it is the first in a list of buttons.  We can use
the `flowIf()`, `withoutProps()` and `hasProp()` helpers to accomplish this:

``` js
type VariantProps = {
  isActive?: boolean,
  isFirst?: boolean,
  isEnabled?: boolean,
};

const Div = stylable<HTMLProps<HTMLDivElement>>('div');

const ContextMenuButton = flow(
  withoutProps<VariantProps>(['isActive', 'isFirst'),
  addClasses('cursor-pointer pl-2 text-grey').flow,
  flowIf(hasProp('isActive'))(
    addClasses('text-white').removeClasses('text-grey'),
  ),
  flowIf(hasProp('isFirst'))(
    removeClasses('pl-2'),
  ),
)(Div);
```

A few notes:

- We use `flow()` rather than `flowRight()` because it is better at type inference.
- Our innermost HOC is `withoutProps()`. This guarantees that the props used to
  control styling won't be passed to the `div` element. We must explicitly type
  the generic `withoutProps()`. This ensures that the type of the resulting
  component will include these props.
- We must use the `.flow` property of `addClasses()` because of a peculiar type
  inference problem in `flow` when a HOC function has its own properties or
  methods. See [tsflow.test.tsx](./__tests__/tsflow.test.jsx) for an example.
