packages/bodiless-layouts/README.md, before:

# Flexbox Grid Component

The flexbox grid (flexboxGrid) component is a layout component that allows you to select from a set of components, place them on the page, and resize them.

## User Details

When an empty flexbox is on the page you will only see a single empty line.

### Add a new component

When you activate a flexboxGrid you will be able to add a new component to the flexbox via the menu.

By clicking on the component selector button you can scroll through all of the available components. You can filter the components by:

* Using search facets to filter out components that do not match the selection (you can undo this by clicking the "select all" checkbox at the top).
* Using the search box field to search across all of the component titles.

You can hover over the infomation icon to see a description of the component.

When you have found the right component, simply click on it, and it will be
added at the end of the activated flexboxGrid.

### Removing a component

When any component in the flexboxGrid is active it will provide a delete button to the context menu. Clicking on this icon will remove the component.

### Resizing a component

When any component in the flexboxGrid is active it will appear with a blue
border. You can resize the component by clicking on the right edge of the
border. Note: this can be done at different breakpoints to adjust the size of
the component at that breakpoint and above.

The sizes are finite and defined by the creator of that particular flexbox.
Smaller breakpoints will offer fewer options for resizing.

### Reordering a component

When any component in the flexboxGrid is active it will appear with a blue
double line icon in the top left corner of the component. By clicking and
dragging this icon you can reorder components in the flexboxGrid.

### Replacing a Component

To change a component's type you must remove that component and replace it with the new component type.

## Technical Details

### Adding components to the FlexboxGrid

The FlexboxGrid uses the Design API to collect the components to make available for placement. This can be passed in using the `design` prop, or by using the higher order component: `withDesign`.

``` js
design = {
    Tout: flow(startWith(Tout), asDefaultTout),
    ToutVertical: flow(startWith(Tout), asVerticalTout, asDefaultTout),
  }
const SiteFlexbox = withDesign(design)(FlexboxGrid);

or

<FlexboxGrid design={design} />
```

> *(Note: the last example should only be used if there is no more reuse.*
`withDesign` *can be used over and over)*.

In either case you can use the `startWith` HOC to declare the base component and then use any other hoc that will add to this specific version.

### Meta data HOCs

To add meta data (used by the flexbox in its component selector) the following HOCs are available.

* **`withName`**: can be used to set the name that will appear in the component selector.

  ``` js
  {
    Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withName('Tout')),
  }
  ```

  > There is also an appended version of `withTitle` called `withAppendTitle` which will just add to the title that already exists.

---

* **`withDesc`**: can be used to set the description that is used in the component selector.

  ``` js
  {
    Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withDesc('The Tout touts something special on which an visitor can act.')),
  }
  ```

  >There is also an append version of `withDesc` called `withAppendDesc` which will add to the title that already exists.
  
---

* **`withTerm`**: can be used to add a term to a category that the component selector will use when giving facets.
  
  ``` js
  {
    Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withTerm('Type')('Tout')),
  }
  ```

---

* **`withFacet`**: is similar to `withTerm` but it appends the term to the title, and adds the category and term to the description as well as taking a hoc that will be applyed to the component.

  ``` js
  {
  Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withFacet('Color')('Red')(asRedTout)),
  }
  ```

  > *If you are going to use a lot of `withFacet`'s with the same category you can create a new function that defines the category.*
  >
  > *For example:*
  >
  > ``` js
  > const withType = withFacet('Type');
  > {
  >  Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withType('Tout')(asTout)),
  > } ```
  
---

Also one can use the Design API function to combine designs in diffent variations.

### Control Component Widths

The flexboxGrid controls the width of components by setting different classes on their wrapper component. The flexboxGrid uses a set of tailwind width classes by default. The `snapData` prop allows the user to provide a function that can set any set of classes.

This function should take an object with a className property (which is a string of the current classes) and a width property. It then returns an object with a className property (an updated version of the className) and a width property (the width to which it should snap). Both width properties are expressed in percentages (e.g. 50%, 75%).

#### Helper functions for snap Data

There are two helper functions for `snapData`.

* **`withTailwindClasses`**: takes a tailwind configuration and the the classes in that configuration you would like to use. It returns a snapData function using the data from the tailwind config.

   ``` js
   import tailwindConfig from '../tailwind.config';

   const snapData = withtailwindClasses(tailwindConfig)('w-full, md:w-full, md:w-1/2, lg:w-full, lg:w-1/2, lg:w-1/3, lg:w-1/4');
   ```
---

* **`getSnapFrom`**: can be used with `withTuple` to create a snapData as well. Each `withTuple` takes a mediaQuery at which it is active, a width to which it corresponds and a class to used.

  ``` js
  const defaultSnapData = getSnapFrom(
    withTuple('(min-width: 0px)')(100)('w-full'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 576px)')(50)('sm:w-1/2'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 576px)')(100)('sm:w-full'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(25)('lg:w-1/4'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(33.33)('lg:w-1/3'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(50)('lg:w-1/2'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(66.66)('lg:w-2/3'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(75)('lg:w-3/4'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(100)('lg:w-full'),
  );
  ```

---

### Limit Number of Components

**`maxComponents`** will limit the number of components that can be added to the flexboxGrid. If the number of components equals the value of maxComponents then the add button will not be visible. If a component is removed and the number of components is less than the max value then the add button will reappear.

Commit message:

feat(layout): Rename Flexbox to FlowContainer

packages/bodiless-layouts/README.md, after:

# FlowContainer Grid Component

The flowContainer grid (flowContainerGrid) component is a layout component that allows you to select from a set of components, place them on the page, and resize them.

## User Details

When an empty flowContainer is on the page you will only see a single empty line.

### Add a new component

When you activate a flowContainerGrid you will be able to add a new component to the flowContainer via the menu.

By clicking on the component selector button you can scroll through all of the available components. You can filter the components by:

* Using search facets to filter out components that do not match the selection (you can undo this by clicking the "select all" checkbox at the top).
* Using the search box field to search across all of the component titles.

You can hover over the infomation icon to see a description of the component.

When you have found the right component, simply click on it, and it will be
added at the end of the activated flowContainerGrid.

### Removing a component

When any component in the flowContainerGrid is active it will provide a delete button to the context menu. Clicking on this icon will remove the component.

### Resizing a component

When any component in the flowContainerGrid is active it will appear with a blue
border. You can resize the component by clicking on the right edge of the
border. Note: this can be done at different breakpoints to adjust the size of
the component at that breakpoint and above.

The sizes are finite and defined by the creator of that particular flowContainer.
Smaller breakpoints will offer fewer options for resizing.

### Reordering a component

When any component in the flowContainerGrid is active it will appear with a blue
double line icon in the top left corner of the component. By clicking and
dragging this icon you can reorder components in the flowContainerGrid.

### Replacing a Component

To change a component's type you must remove that component and replace it with the new component type.

## Technical Details

### Adding components to the FlowContainerGrid

The FlowContainerGrid uses the Design API to collect the components to make available for placement. This can be passed in using the `design` prop, or by using the higher order component: `withDesign`.

``` js
design = {
    Tout: flow(startWith(Tout), asDefaultTout),
    ToutVertical: flow(startWith(Tout), asVerticalTout, asDefaultTout),
  }
const SiteFlowContainer = withDesign(design)(FlowContainerGrid);

or

<FlowContainerGrid design={design} />
```

> *(Note: the last example should only be used if there is no more reuse.*
`withDesign` *can be used over and over)*.

In either case you can use the `startWith` HOC to declare the base component and then use any other hoc that will add to this specific version.

### Meta data HOCs

To add meta data (used by the flowContainer in its component selector) the following HOCs are available.

* **`withName`**: can be used to set the name that will appear in the component selector.

  ``` js
  {
    Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withName('Tout')),
  }
  ```

  > There is also an appended version of `withTitle` called `withAppendTitle` which will just add to the title that already exists.

---

* **`withDesc`**: can be used to set the description that is used in the component selector.

  ``` js
  {
    Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withDesc('The Tout touts something special on which an visitor can act.')),
  }
  ```

  >There is also an append version of `withDesc` called `withAppendDesc` which will add to the title that already exists.
  
---

* **`withTerm`**: can be used to add a term to a category that the component selector will use when giving facets.
  
  ``` js
  {
    Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withTerm('Type')('Tout')),
  }
  ```

---

* **`withFacet`**: is similar to `withTerm` but it appends the term to the title, and adds the category and term to the description as well as taking a hoc that will be applyed to the component.

  ``` js
  {
  Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withFacet('Color')('Red')(asRedTout)),
  }
  ```

  > *If you are going to use a lot of `withFacet`'s with the same category you can create a new function that defines the category.*
  >
  > *For example:*
  >
  > ``` js
  > const withType = withFacet('Type');
  > {
  >  Tout:  flow(startWith(Tout), withType('Tout')(asTout)),
  > } ```
  
---

Also one can use the Design API function to combine designs in diffent variations.

### Control Component Widths

The flowContainerGrid controls the width of components by setting different classes on their wrapper component. The flowContainerGrid uses a set of tailwind width classes by default. The `snapData` prop allows the user to provide a function that can set any set of classes.

This function should take an object with a className property (which is a string of the current classes) and a width property. It then returns an object with a className property (an updated version of the className) and a width property (the width to which it should snap). Both width properties are expressed in percentages (e.g. 50%, 75%).

#### Helper functions for snap Data

There are two helper functions for `snapData`.

* **`withTailwindClasses`**: takes a tailwind configuration and the the classes in that configuration you would like to use. It returns a snapData function using the data from the tailwind config.

   ``` js
   import tailwindConfig from '../tailwind.config';

   const snapData = withtailwindClasses(tailwindConfig)('w-full, md:w-full, md:w-1/2, lg:w-full, lg:w-1/2, lg:w-1/3, lg:w-1/4');
   ```
---

* **`getSnapFrom`**: can be used with `withTuple` to create a snapData as well. Each `withTuple` takes a mediaQuery at which it is active, a width to which it corresponds and a class to used.

  ``` js
  const defaultSnapData = getSnapFrom(
    withTuple('(min-width: 0px)')(100)('w-full'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 576px)')(50)('sm:w-1/2'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 576px)')(100)('sm:w-full'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(25)('lg:w-1/4'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(33.33)('lg:w-1/3'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(50)('lg:w-1/2'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(66.66)('lg:w-2/3'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(75)('lg:w-3/4'),
    withTuple('(min-width: 992px)')(100)('lg:w-full'),
  );
  ```

---

### Limit Number of Components

**`maxComponents`** will limit the number of components that can be added to the flowContainerGrid. If the number of components equals the value of maxComponents then the add button will not be visible. If a component is removed and the number of components is less than the max value then the add button will reappear.
