packages/bodiless-documentation/doc/Development/BuildingSites/TailwindGuide.md, before:

# Using Tailwind system with Bodiless

Adding additional styling can be done by editing `tailwind.config.js` following
[Tailwind documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration). The
starter kit has a empty Tailwind configuration which means that site will get
all Tailwind's default settings in a generated index.css. Tailwind allows you to
replace or extend the settings. If you are using Bodiless components which may
be using default tailwind classes, we suggest you
[extend](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/theme/#extending-the-default-theme)
instead of replace using theme.extend.

```
    extend: {
      colors: {
        brand_blue: '#004c97',
        brand_lightblue: '#017eb3',
        brand_mediumblue: '#009cde',
      },
    },  
```

This will add additional brand colors to the all the default tailwind colors.
While this may produce a large css file, when the static site builds it utilizes
[purge css features](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/controlling-file-size/#removing-unused-css)
to remove unused css and keep this css file small for best performance.

Each time you make a change in tailwind.config.js you need to make sure your run
`npm run build:css` to regenerate a new `src/components/index.css` that is
automatically included for the site. The css build will happen automatically
whenever you do command `npm run start` and start your site but if you are in
local develop and site is running, you can run this as separate command and site
will hotload the index.css file.

Commit message:

Update to docs removing Templates

packages/bodiless-documentation/doc/Development/BuildingSites/TailwindGuide.md, after:

# Using Tailwind system with Bodiless
(TO DO:  Doc Starting point and will be enhanced in future tickets.)

As discussed in other sections, Bodiless depends on Tailwind which is
utility-first CSS framework. If you are unfamiliar, we highly suggest reading
these guides:

- [Github](https://github.com/tailwindcss)
- [Docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/what-is-tailwind)

## Tailwind Configuration File
The sites tailwind configuration file, `tailwind.config.js`, can be found in
root directory of the site.

Adding custom styling can be done by editing `tailwind.config.js` following
[Tailwind documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration). 

The starter kit has a empty Tailwind configuration which means that site will
get all Tailwind's default settings into a generated index.css. 

## Extend vs Replace
Tailwind allows you to replace or extend the settings. If you are using Bodiless
components which may be using default tailwind classes, we suggest you
[extend](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/theme/#extending-the-default-theme)
instead of replace using theme.extend.

```
    extend: {
      colors: {
        brand_blue: '#004c97',
        brand_lightblue: '#017eb3',
        brand_mediumblue: '#009cde',
      },
    },  
```

This will add additional brand colors to the all the default tailwind colors.
While this may produce a large css file, when the static site builds it utilizes
[purge css features](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/controlling-file-size/#removing-unused-css)
to remove unused css and keep this css file small for best performance.

## Building with Tailwind

Each time you make a change in tailwind.config.js you need to make sure your run
`npm run build:css` to regenerate a new `src/components/index.css` that is
automatically included for the site. The css build will happen automatically
whenever you do command `npm run start` and start your site but if you are in
local develop and site is running, you can run this as separate command and site
will hotload the index.css file.

## Components iwth Tailwind Dependencies

Components that have tailwind dependencies:
* TO DO
